New changes in ecochange V2.9.3.1

-fixed issue: the package can suppress its startup message.

New changes in ecochange V2.9.3

- Updated versions of global products: Global Forest Cover version 1.9
  (2021), and Global Surface Water version 1.4 (2021)

New changes in ecochange V2.9.2

- Function 'getGADM': The internal algorithm now implements 'gadm'
 (geodata) to substitute routines previously controlled by the
 promptly extinct 'getData' (raster).  More user-friendly
 warning/error messages.

- Function 'plot.echanges': Improved computation of extremes to define
  color palettes.

- Function 'rsp2ebv': preexisting .shp files stored in paths other
  than tempdir() are not erased anymore.

- Function 'getrsp': 'sf' class is supported.

New changes in ecochange V2.9.1

- Function 'rsp2ebv': Errors in the example from the incorrect removal
  of temporary files were fixed by implementing an internal function
  that removes unnecessary files more efficiently.

- A citation file was included. Users can now cite the
  scientific publication of the package by running
  citation('ecochange').


New changes in ecochange V2.9

-A broken URL was replaced. Previous
 "https://prd-wret.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/s3fs-public/atoms/files/WRS2_descending_0.zip""
was changed by
"https://d9-wret.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/s3fs-public/atoms/files/WRS2_descending_0.zip"
-Additional arguments were included in two plot methods: 'plot.Indicator' and 'plot.echanges',
 see documentation of the package.
-'rgdal' is not implemented anymore. 'sp' is used instead
-An issue with 'proj4string' was fixed: 'proj4string' is now imported from 'sp'

-Methods 'plot.Indicator' and 'plot.echanges': New arguments to
improve the diagnostic plots were created, see package documentation
Function 'getWRS': a broken link necessary to download Landsat paths
and rows was fixed

New changes in ecochange V2.8

The package has reduced the number of depends and imports, see package
documentation.
Functions 'ploebv' and 'plotind' have been replaced by two new plot
methods: 'plot.echanges' and 'plot.Indicator'


New changes in ecochange V2.6

Function 'rsp2ebv': sf::gdal_utils is implemented. Library gdalUtilities is not used anymore.
Functions 'plotebv' and 'plotind': Import 'viridis' was moved to suggests.
Function 'getrsp': Imports 'curl', 'xml2', and 'rves' were moved to suggests.
Function 'getWRS': rgdal::readOGR was replaced by sf::st_read.
Function 'tabuleRaster': gdaUtilities::gdalinfo was replaced by sf::gdal_utils.

New changes in ecochange V2.5
Function 'rsp2ebv': gdalwarp from gdalUtilities is implemented. Library gdalUtils is not used anymore

New changes in ecochange V2.4
Function 'getrsp': We added the argument 'rewrite.pass' to rewrite earth-data password
Function 'rsp2ebv': file paths were normalized using normalizePath()

New changes in ecochange V2.3
Function 'rsp2ebv': Argument 'path' is expanded using path.expand()
Function 'plotebv': Suggested depencence 'rasterVis' has been avoided.

New changes in ecochange V2.1

changes in function 'echanges': "gdal_calc.py" binary is not
implemented anymore. Logical functions from the raster package are used
instead.

New changes in ecochange V2.0

Error message: "sh: gdal_calc.py: not found, Error in .local(.Object, ...) :" was fixed 

New changes in ecochange V1.9

changes in function 'echanges': procedures for masking rasters have
been improved incorporating functionlity of 'gdal.calc_py'

New changes in ecochange V1.3:

New function "getrsp" replaces previous
function "FCPolygon" in old package "forestChange". The function can
download now several ecological remote sensing products, see
package documentation.

New function "rsp2ebv" replaces previous functions
"FCPolygon","CCPolygon", and "FCMosaic" in old package "forestChange",
see the package documentation.

New function "deforest" replaces previous function "FCMask" in old
package "forestChange", see the package documentation.


New changes in forestChange V1.0:

Dependence "SDMTools" has been replace by "landscapemetrics".

New functions "barplot.EBVstats", "CCPolygon", "EBVMask", "EBVstats",
and "FCMask" has been added to the package, see the package
documentation.

Changes in function "plot.EBVmetric": New multi-panel plot has been created.

New changes in forestChange V0.6:

Changes in function "FCPolygon": New argument 'url' has been added to
the function, see manual of the package.

New changes in forestChange V0.5:

Changes in function "GFCurls": 'readTable' is implemented changing two
defaults: 'encoding = latin1' and 'skipNul = TRUE'.

New changes in forestChange V0.4:

Changes in function "GFCurls": A friendly message is printed if there
is no internet connection. Besides, routines for processing URLs were
changed implementing the functions "read_html" (package "curl"), and
"html_nodes" and "html_attr" (package "rvest"). Finally, This function
uses now the system of the machine ("Windows", "Linux") to change the
encoding argument in "read.table" ("unknown", "UTF-8").
